When I was a child I attended a boarding school. All of my basic needs were
taken care of, but on the weekends I noticed that the other kids had parents
that would take them home. No one ever came to take me home. They seemed so
happy. I was alone. My name is Nazar Kamar. I was born in Kiev, Ukraine. And seven
days after I was born, when I was still just a baby. My parents abandoned me. The
school principal and teachers took turns caring for me, but I saw the other
parents and how much they loved their children. I really wanted to have my own
parents. I waited for them to come, but they never did. It was very painful. So I
decided I needed a goal to focus on. I hoped my parents were looking for me and I
thought playing sports might help them find me. They might see me and recognize
that I am their son. I concentrated on getting good enough to play professionally.
I learned to play very well, but my hope always was that when I traveled to
different places, my parents might be sitting in the stands and they would see
me and say, this is our son. We found you. I began playing in a national league. And the
team provided me a small room to live in and began to pay me a salary. It was not
much and not enough to live on. So I also got a job working at a factory. While
working there, I met Sergei. He was one of Joe's witnesses. He would show me
scriptures from the Bible, like Revelation 21, 3 and 4, about a future paradise
with wonderful conditions where there would be no more suffering or pain. I wanted a
life like that. But I didn't see those conditions around me. My life was very
hard. So these promises were difficult to believe. Sergei also showed me God's name in the
Bible at Exodus 153. And he explained to me the meaning of God's name, Jehovah, that he
can become whatever he chooses to become. When I connected that name with his promise
at Revelation 21, 3 and 4, it was then that I started to believe it. At my first meeting,
I was amazed by what I saw. The hearing and the deaf were communicating together. They
had unity and they cared for each other. I felt comfortable there. At one of the meetings,
I saw the verse at Psalm 68.5, which refers to Jehovah God as the Father of the Fatherless.
I was touched. He knows exactly how hard it is to be an orphan. He fully understands
me. He gave me goose bumps and I felt an inner peace and comfort. When my basketball team
and the deaf community learned that I was studying the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses,
they were very upset with me. They told me I would lose their support. I would lose my
salary and housing. I was at a crossroads. Since I'm an orphan, where would I live? This
was a very difficult time. I noticed that I didn't feel the same unity or connection with
my team as I did with Jehovah's Witnesses. So, I decided to continue to study the Bible.
I gave up their support and got baptized. Jehovah has blessed me. I am no longer alone.
I have my own family now. My wife, Yevdekia. We love and cherish each other so much. He
has also given me brothers and sisters who care about me. They are my spiritual family.
My life is no longer full of pain. Today, I still search for my parents and wait for them.
Because when I find them, I want to help them by telling them about God's name. Now, I
no longer consider myself an orphan because I have a father. My father in heaven, whose
name is Jehovah.